=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_MAC_KMAC - The KMAC EVP_MAC implementation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Support for computing KMAC MACs through the B<EVP_MAC> API.

=head2 Numeric identity

B<EVP_MAC_KMAC> is the numeric identity for this implementation, and
can be used in functions like EVP_MAC_CTX_new_id() and
EVP_get_macbynid().

=head2 Supported controls

The supported controls are:

=over 4

=item B<EVP_MAC_CTRL_SET_MD>

These work as described in L<EVP_MAC(3)/CONTROLS> with the restriction that the
digest must be one of EVP_kmac128() or EVP_kmac256().

EVP_MAC_ctrl_str() type string: "digest"

The value string is expected to be either "KMAC128" or "KMAC256".


=item B<EVP_MAC_CTRL_SET_KEY>

This can only be used after B<EVP_MAC_CTRL_SET_MD> has been set.

EVP_MAC_ctrl_str() takes two type strings for this control:

=over 4

=item "key"

The value string is used as is.

=item "hexkey"

The value string is expected to be a hexadecimal number, which will be
decoded before passing on as control value.

=back

=item B<EVP_MAC_CTRL_SET_CUSTOM>

EVP_MAC_ctrl_str() takes two type strings for this control:

=over 4

=item "custom"

The value string is used as is.

=item "hexcustom"

The value string is expected to be a hexadecimal number, which will be
decoded before passing on as control value.

=back

=item B<EVP_MAC_CTRL_SET_SIZE>

EVP_MAC_ctrl_str() type string: "outlen"

The value string is expected to contain a decimal number. This can be used to
override the default value that is specified by the digest.
This can be called any time before EVP_MAC_final().

=item B<EVP_MAC_CTRL_SET_FLAGS>

EVP_MAC_ctrl_str() type string: "xof"

The value string is expected to be an unsigned long. Use 1 to enable XOF mode.
If XOF is enabled then the output len that is encoded as part of the input
stream is set to zero.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_MAC_ctrl(3)>, L<EVP_MAC(3)/CONTROLS>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
